       Computers are those devices that play a very important role in our everyday life. 
We are so accustomed to using them that we barely notice their presence. However, their 
absence can spell trouble for a lot of us. Beginning with a school project, to work from home,
computers have become part and parcel of our daily lives. Though many of us maybe averse to 
the idea of machines pervading into our daily lives, they have come to become the unavoidable 
necessity. Computer help us with calculations, storing data, staying organized and also 
entertain and inform us. 


       Maintaining our computers health isn't only practical, it's essential that is why we need
to know how to troubleshoot the different parts of our computer. Before going to the repairing process,
we should identify and isolate the type of difficulty our PC encountered. This is the first step in 
troubleshooting. Generally, computer problems fall into two main areas, the hardware and the software.
Our computer fails to work due to hardware or software failure. Hardware problem occurs when one of the 
key parts of a computer is unable to work properly. The key components of a computer that are required
to run a computer include Motherboard, CPU, Memory, Power Unit, Hard Drive, Sound and Video Cards, 
CD/DVD Drive, Floppy Drive, Monitor and Keyboard. Among these computer parts, the most failure-
prone parts are memory, power unit, hard drive, video card and CD/DVD drive. Other than hardware 
effect, a computer may stop working because of software problem as well. In fact, most of the problems 
of a computer come due to software problem and system configurations. Software includes both the 
operating system and application programs. Some of the reasons for software problems include corrupted
or missing system files, virus attack, invalid hardware or incompatible driver and improper program 
installation/removal. The second step in troubleshooting is dealing with the identified problem. 
How are we going to solve the problem? What do we need to resolve it? To come down to the best 
solution, we must ask these kinds of questions and answer accordingly. If it is a hardware problem, 
we either repair or replace it with new one. Actually, not all parts of a computer are repairable.
Even if it is maintainable, in most cases replacing the defective part with a new one is cheaper 
than to repair it. Reinstalling and updating software is the primary way of troubleshooting systems
problem created by software. Any system error or corruption related with installed applications
can be fixed by installing an updated and fresh copy again.


      In one way or another, we use computer to carry out our daily task. However, in any time, 
our PC may stop working and disappoint us. However if we know the methods of troubleshooting,
we will surely fix the problem and continue with our work. Also we will cut PC repair cost by half. 
 
        
 
